=head1 Terminology

=head2 Perl, perl, PERL

"Perl" is the language.

F<perl> is the compiler on disk.

PERL is wrong.

=head2 Perl is not an acronym

The backronyms "Practical Extraction and Reporting Language" and
"Pathologically Eclectic Rubbish Lister" came along after the name
was created.

=head2 There Is More Than One Way To Do It.

The Perl motto is spelled C<TMTOWTDI>, and pronounced "Tim Toady".

=head2 Larry

Larry is Larry Wall, inventor of Perl and its representative
figurehead.  He mostly lives in Perl 6 land these days, but
he still makes important contributions to Perl 5.

=head2 Randal

Randal is Randal Schwartz, owner of one of the largest Perl
consulting and training businesses, Stonehenge.  He also takes
time to help newcomers on IRC and in other forums.

Larry and Randal are also the primary authors of I<Programming Perl>.

=head2 Damian

Damian is Damian Conway, eccentric evil genius and master
of Perl 6.  The book I<Perl Best Practices> has been his
seminal work, inspiring people to improve their code writing.

=head2 Laziness, Impatience, Hubris

The three virtues of a programmer: Laziness, Impatience, Hubris.

The lazy programmer will reuse whatever they can to get their work
done.  This virtue leads to code reuse by encouraging code to
be written only once.

The impatient programmer will use whatever is available to them
to get the job done quicker, and will use the machine for tasks
they don't want to do manually.

The programmer with hubris will write their code efficiently,
cleanly and readably, so that it is something they can be proud of.

Perl is built on these values.

=head2 DWIM

Do What I Mean is closely related, but implies an intelligence
in the machine that isn't there.

=head2 DTRT

Do The Right Thing

Perl tries to DTRT, where the Right Thing is often as close as
possible to DWIM.
